{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
{\info
{\author Daniel Topa}
{\*\company DTRIAC}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
https://dsiac.org/models/afsim/ \
\
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The Advanced Framework for Simulation, Integration, and Modeling (AFSIM) is a government-owned, open-sourced, and community-informed military simulation framework primarily used by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) acquisition, operations analysis, and research and engineering communities.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 DISTRIBUTION\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Limited dissemination controls govern AFSIM - its source code, binaries, content, and documentation. 
\f1\i All components of AFSIM are export controlled.
\f0\i0  
\f1\i All output from AFSIM is also export controlled, regardless of input.
\f0\i0 \
AFSIM contains technical data whose export is restricted by the Arms Export Control Act (Title 22, U.S.C. Sec 2751 et seq.) or the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended, Title 50 U.S.C., App. 2401 et seq. Violations of these export laws are subject to severe criminal penalties. Disseminate in accordance with provisions of DoD Directive 5230.25.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Software
\f0\b0 : The core AFSIM framework source code, binaries, and extensions cannot be redistributed or shared without prior coordination and approval. These restricted components are marked with 
\f1\i DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT F: Further dissemination only as directed by AFRL Aerospace Systems Directorate, or higher DoD authority.
\f0\i0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Content
\f0\b0 : \'93Stock\'94 demos and \'93boxset\'94 models or scenarios are intended to support customization and sharing across the broader U.S. defense enterprise. AFSIM-compatible content is typically marked with 
\f1\i DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT C: Distribution authorized to US Government agencies and their contractors; Controlled Technical Information, Export Controlled. Other requests for this information shall be referred to AFRL Aerospace Systems Directorate.
\f0\i0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Documentation
\f0\b0 : \'a0Software documentation is intended to accompany studies or technical reports. As such, documentation also supports sharing across the broader U.S. defense enterprise. AFSIM documentation is typically marked with 
\f1\i DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT C: Distribution authorized to US Government agencies and their contractors; Software Documentation, Controlled Technical Information, Export Controlled. Other requests for this information shall be referred to AFRL Aerospace Systems Directorate.}