{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2820
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww27920\viewh13400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 WSR 2027-12-26\
\
1. Turned in the Swarmstorm abstract for the Supercomputing Conference. The goal is to exploit expertise in HPC and coarrays and create a PDES or PDES-suggestive approach. We also may report negative answers. Not the thought is to look at satellite formations flying through a space debris obstacle course.\
\
2. This ties into a second paper for ACM's Modeling and Simulation conference in Santa Fe this summer. The paper is due by 24 Jan. I'll send out the abstract today. It will focus on a satellite formation in a debris field with high velocity crossing orbits for debris as well as the disbursed cloud and will feature different detection and communication protocols. I may be able to tie  in 3d radar representations. I am thinking of a spinning monolith with dimensions 1 x 4 x 9. We should be able to induce states that are invisible.\
\
3. Overleaf (https://www.overleaf.com/project/65c07ce3dbc4c3c9eac4926b) is an option for shared collaboration on these papers.\
\
Things to you today:\
1. Take marking course\
2. Space Debris bibliography\
3. DEtail on SC conference\
4. Abstract for ACM paper\
5. ACM conference details}