{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red71\green71\blue71;\red25\green88\blue82;
\red9\green9\blue9;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c34902\c34902\c34902;\cssrgb\c10980\c41569\c39608;
\cssrgb\c3137\c3137\c3137;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17260\viewh12460\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-1300\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs130 \cf2 \kerning1\expnd-2\expndtw-7
\CocoaLigature0 There Will Be a War in Space. This Is What It Will Look Like.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-440\sa240\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \CocoaLigature1 Many of the technologies that will define the future of space warfare are already in development. The problem facing the U.S. is that China is spearheading most of it.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-640\sa320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs36 \cf2 If another great power conflict erupts
\f2\b0 , it will be fought in the strategic domain of space. That\'92s because the U.S. disproportionately relies upon access to space for its most basic military and civilian operations. Destroy or disrupt those satellite linkages, and America\'92s adversaries\'97most notably China and Russia\'97will have a significant window of opportunity to exploit American weaknesses. \
In fact, the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://apple.news/PQxD_PklYSKZyORB8eQmT7v"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 U.S. Space Force}} was created because the national command authority believed that America\'92s position in space, notably the strategic orbits around Earth, was eroding. At the time of its creation in 2019, the Space Force was given a simple strategic doctrine: \'93Space Dominance.\'94
\f3\fs24 \cf0 \

\f2\fs36 \cf2 But that\'92s not where the story of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://apple.news/Pw6IEyKbbbARKIT4UrdZICw"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 space war}} ends. China and Russia want more than just to deny the U.S. access to space in a time of war, so fighting outside the confines of Earth will come in stages. China already has crafted plans to displace the United States as the dominant satellite power in orbit. And soon, wars will be fought over control of vital territories in space, such as the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://apple.news/PgS4PtntTBSFGrScP_Mt4Zt"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 Lagrange points}} between Earth and the moon that help telescopes sit steady in space or the resource-rich asteroid belt. \
If either China or Russia ever managed to become the dominant space power, that country would surely become the dominant power on Earth as well, since space and Earth are so intertwined in the digital age. In anticipation of the coming space war era, America needs to take actionable steps to rule the domain outside our own planet\'97and keep its enemies at bay. But the transition to space warfare won\'92t happen overnight; it\'92ll come in phases.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-760\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs70 \cf2 Phase I\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-500\sa320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs36 \cf5 FOLLOW\uc0\u8232 POPULAR\u8232 MECHANICS\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-640\sa320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Right now, any potential space war will be closely tied to geopolitical developments on Earth. Thus, a space war would begin as a fight over satellites with the end goal of denying one\'92s enemies access to space to blind its forces and sow confusion in its populations back home on Earth. \
For instance, if the geopolitical situation on Earth between the U.S. and Russia or China broke down sufficiently, either of these two rivals could fire {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://apple.news/PAj2Jt6QlC1-ySQ_4nI_HM8"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 anti-satellite}} (ASAT) weapons at those vital-yet-vulnerable U.S. satellites in orbit. The debris generated from such an attack might be so profound that it would ricochet and annihilate nearby satellite constellations, causing a massive chain reaction, known as the Kessler Syndrome, that would result in the total loss of all satellites across the orbital plane. Or, Russia could simply detonate a nuke in orbit. The electromagnetic pulse it would create would saturate the space above Earth and effectively disable all satellites there.\
Chinese co-orbital satellites floating nearby sensitive American nuclear command, communication, and control satellites or near the U.S. Navy\'92s Mobile User Objective System (MUOS) satellite constellation, which allows for the global coordination of U.S. Navy forces, would be used to physically sabotage these important American systems in orbit. Chinese counterspace forces could target the critical Wideband Global Satcom (WGS) satellite constellation for disruption, too. From the Xichang Satellite Center in China, powerful lasers could be fired up at U.S. spy satellites in Low-Earth Orbit (LEO) passing by, rendering American (and allied) forces in the Indo-Pacific blind.\
Over the years, senior Space Force officers from Peterson Space Force Base in Colorado have insisted that the U.S. military, too, can threaten Chinese and Russian satellites in orbit; it\'92s just that neither Russia nor China yet rely upon satellites the way the U.S. does. Further, in space warfare, the advantage goes to the attacker rather than the defender. Once a nation starts losing its satellite constellations, it becomes nearly impossible to save those satellite capabilities. It\'92s a knock-on effect.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-760\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs70 \cf2 Phase II\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-640\sa320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs36 \cf2 Eventually, though, there will be conflict among actors in space that goes beyond targeting unmanned satellites. That distant war might occur entirely in space, relatively unaffected by developments on Earth.\
Let\'92s go back to those Chinese and Russian co-orbital satellites that stalk American satellites in orbit, such as the MUOS or WGS constellations in geosynchronous orbit around Earth. One suggestion by experts for countering the threat these co-orbital satellites pose is the creation and usage of so-called \'93bodyguard\'94 satellites. As the name suggests, these bodyguard satellites would be co-orbital satellites deployed alongside the U.S. satellites in orbit to defend against incoming counterspace attacks by Chinese or Russian space forces. \
Like a Secret Service agent diving in front of an incoming bullet, these bodyguard satellites would physically intercept and deflect incoming co-orbital satellite attacks. While not fool-proof, these co-orbital, bodyguard-type satellites would buy America\'92s critical satellites time to continue operating in a degraded environment, thereby giving American military units fighting on Earth below tactical advantages over their enemies. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-760\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs70 \cf2 Phase III\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-640\sa320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs36 \cf2 Contrary to how many space policy experts may think about the strategic domain of space, it will not be an area relegated only to unmanned military systems and manned research facilities, such as the International Space Station. Eventually, military operations will take place through\'97and from\'97the strategic high ground of space. In fact, in 2002, this almost became a reality when a daring U.S. Marine officer {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.popsci.com/military-aviation-space/article/2006-12/semper-fly-marines-space/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 championed}} his branch purchasing one of Richard Branson\'92s spaceplanes and converting it for military use. \
In the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States, U.S. ground forces were presented with a tough set of options: they had to rapidly advance into landlocked Afghanistan to hunt down and destroy the terrorist enclaves that had given succor to Al-Qaeda. There were concerns about being given access to the airspace surrounding Afghanistan. One solution was to create a force of sub-orbital space planes that would launch into orbit from American territory, pass over the airspace of other countries (without crossing through it), and then land in the target country. Think of it as being akin to the dropships featured in the popular 
\f4\i Halo
\f2\i0  video game series. \
This idea never took off, but variations of it exist today. In a new, multipolar world environment where the strategy of denial is most commonly used against the U.S. military\'92s power projection capabilities, having a rapid response fleet of spaceplanes to quickly send ground troops into combat in distant lands, without ever violating the airspace of surrounding nations, might be one way to ensure that the U.S. military can continue projecting power when needed.\
The U.S. Air Force has {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://spacenews.com/the-air-force-is-exploring-the-potential-of-space-vehicles-to-rapidly-transport-critical-supplies-from-orbital-warehouses-back-to-earth/#:~:text=(REGAL)%20program.-,The%20Air%20Force%20is%20exploring%20the%20potential%20of%20space%20vehicles,from%20prepositioned%20stocks%20in%20orbit."}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 called}} for a similar project. Instead of creating spaceplanes to drop ground troops into battle, though, the Air Force wants to build the equivalent of warehouses in low-Earth orbit in order to more quickly supply forces engaged in combat in what will undoubtedly be contested and degraded airspaces (making it harder for traditional forms of resupply to get to those American forces). Keeping those supplies in orbit, according to the Air Force, would be more cost-effective in the long run because you could conceivably cut down on the distance between the point of origin and the destination for those supplies.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-760\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs70 \cf2 Phase IV\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-640\sa320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs36 \cf2 With the rise of hypersonic missiles as well as a return of the threat of nuclear world war, the old Reagan-era concept of space-based missile defense has become a hot topic among America\'92s national security space policymakers. Back in the 1980s, when President Reagan first {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.thespacereview.com/article/4874/1"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 proposed}} building a constellation of satellites to knock out incoming Soviet nuclear ballistic missiles, the 40th president was derided as being delusional; the technology needed to shoot down incoming missiles was still in its infancy. Today, however, the technology has more than matured, and the U.S. is now vulnerable to a surprise nuclear missile strike each day that the Pentagon refuses to build and deploy these systems.\
As for the growing threat of hypersonic weapons, multiple defense sources insist that the only real defense against them will be from space-based assets. Specifically, swarms of satellites operating in Low-Earth Orbit could be used to intercept hypersonic glide vehicles, preventing those weapons from ever reentering the Earth\'92s atmosphere and destroying their vulnerable targets below. \
The threat of hypersonic weapons have less to do with their speed (although they are quite fast), and more to do with the way that they {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/article/3391322/general-says-countering-hypersonic-weapons-is-imperative/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 radically maneuver}} on their way to their target, stymying conventional air defense batteries. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a source at the Air Force\'92s Western Air Defense Sector (WADS) at Joint Base McChord confirmed that the kind of hypersonic weapon the Russians fired at Dnipro in retaliation for Ukraine\'92s use of American-made Army Tactical Missile System (ATACM) and British-built Storm Shadow cruise missiles cannot be reliably defended against by most conventional air defense systems. \
So, in both conventional nuclear missiles as well as newer hypersonic weapons threats, the only defense is space-based. Such systems would have a birds-eye view of incoming attacks and could tether those real-time observations of incoming attacks to a multi-layered defense screen that operated continuously around the Earth, working alongside existing anti-missile defense systems. But space will be key. Indeed, as Reagan conjectured, such space-based defenses could render the entire threat of nuclear weapons attack obsolete. At the very least, it could degrade the threat of nuclear warfare. \
Nevertheless, wars will still occur. \
Indeed, they will increasingly migrate to the Solar System itself, as humans move deeper into the galaxy and settle permanently on celestial objects, such as the moon, Mars, and the asteroid belt beyond. The fight in the strategic high ground of space will be less about controlling the domains on Earth below and more about controlling key territories of the Solar System.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-760\sa240\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs70 \cf2 Phase V\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-640\sa320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs36 \cf2 Over time, there will eventually be combat waged between actual spaceships, although these spaceships are unlikely to look like what most fans of science fiction are used to seeing on their television screens. The spaceships will probably be large, clunky vessels. \
Modular design itself will be helpful. In battle, if sections of the spaceship are damaged beyond repair, they could conceivably be detached so that the rest of the spaceship could continue fighting on. Further, these spaceships could be {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1000936123001395"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 outfitted}} with modules and payloads specific to whatever type of mission they were undertaking in the depths of space. In fact, these large, modular spacecraft could possibly detach into smaller spacecraft, making themselves into an armada of smaller craft rather than one large, lumbering spaceship. \
Rather than sleek and stylish, these cumbersome spaceships will be modular vessels likely powered by an {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://emdrive.com/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 Electromagnetic (EM) Drive}} or possibly even a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ans.org/news/article-1294/nuclear-pulse-propulsion-gateway-to-the-stars/#:~:text=Nuclear%20pulse%20propulsion%20is%20a,by%20Stanislaw%20Ulam%20in%201947."}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 nuclear-pulse-detonation engine}}\'97both of which are highly experimental today. An EM Drive is a wild experimental technology that was first posited by a British satellite engineer, Roger Shawyer. The U.S. became interested in the technology (as did the Chinese) for use as a possible engine on future satellites. This is a microwave technology that converts electrical energy directly into thrust. Propellant is not used. The system has been dubbed the \'93Impossible Drive\'94 by many scientists who remain skeptical that it will work as intended. \
Nuclear-pulse detonation is another idea that\'92s been floating around for decades. Such an engine would essentially \'93use nuclear explosions, detonated behind a reaction surface on a spacecraft, to push the spacecraft forward.\'94 \
Warp drives, unfortunately, are unlikely to be in use even at this later date. Just as in 
\f4\i Star Trek,
\f2\i0  warp drives compress space in front of a starship, expanding it behind the spacecraft. The ship can, therefore, travel at faster-than-light speeds. Although, there are real theories for how humanity could be using warp drives, such as those of Miguel Alcubierre, these are infeasible and likely will be for some time. \
AI will become a mission-critical part of any space operation going forward. By the time that humanity begins warring for control of our Solar System, humanity\'92s survival in space will be impossible without it. There might be many instances in which AI is completely controlling spaceships either because the crew will have been incapacitated or the militaries deploying these modular space warships would prefer to put machines\'97rather than their own men and women in uniform\'97at risk.\
In terms of a future space battle between the United States Space Force and China\'92s People\'92s Liberation Army Aerospace Force, for instance, the modular starships of the two sides will likely deploy swarms of AI-controlled space drones against one another. They will fire directed-energy weapons\'97in other words, lasers. \
Long-range ballistic missiles and possibly even railguns will complement the lasers of these modular starships. Railguns are an interesting piece of technology that are currently under development by both the U.S. and Chinese militaries. Basically, these guns use electricity to launch projectiles at very high speeds across large distances. Although, since most combat in a future space war will likely occur across vast distances, the missiles would be the last resort for a military engagement due to fuel constraints. Still, they will be available. \
In a zero-gravity environment, spaceships will be able to maneuver and conduct attacks in ways that platforms on Earth simply cannot. The vast distances in space will likely mean that spacecraft combating each other might not see each other. They would have to rely on drones and possibly even new forms of sensors, such as quantum radar, or other technologies that are highly theoretical today. \
Quantum radar is a major source of controversy right now. That\'92s because the Chinese military has spearheaded its design and claims that it can basically render American stealth planes obsolete. As Dave Makichuk of the 
\f4\i Asia Times
\f2\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://asiatimes.com/2021/09/quantum-radar-does-it-actually-work/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \ul \ulc4 wrote}} in 2021, the quantum radar basically creates an \'93artificial electromagnetic storm\'94 in which radar operators can detect even stealth warplanes. \
In the future, space powers will equip their ships to handle the delayed communications. One technology that may evolve into a primary system for space travel in general\'97and space combat specifically\'97could be quantum communications, another technology that is being spearheaded by China. Luckily, today, the Americans have SpaceX. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-640\sa320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://thequantuminsider.com/2024/10/24/quantum-communication-tech-to-be-tested-on-upcoming-spacex-mission/#:~:text=In%20space%2C%20SEAQUE%20could%20lay,communication%20between%20far%2Dflung%20spacecraft."}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \cf2 \ul \ulc4 According}} to Matt Swayne at 
\f4\i Quantum Insider,
\f2\i0  the innovative startup is testing the Space Entanglement and Annealing Quantum Experiment (SEAQUE) which \'93could lay the foundation for quantum cloud computing across vast distances\'94 which could be \'93a technology that is critical for future space exploration and communication between far-flung spacecraft.\'94 This could be the beginnings of a technology that becomes the basis of advanced spaceflight-enabling communications technologies, all of which would play a significant role in future space combat situations. \
The technologies that will define the future of space warfare are already being developed now. In some cases, rudimentary forms of these systems are already being fielded. The problem facing the U.S., if it is to continue being competitive, is that China is spearheading the development of many of those technologies. If that continues to be the case, then America\'92s quest to be the dominant space power will evaporate. This competition will go beyond the current moment and define the rest of the century as humanity takes its permanent place in the cosmos. \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl-640\sa320\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://apple.news/AjprY6GceSA6JWwOCuuDqmQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://apple.news/AjprY6GceSA6JWwOCuuDqmQ}}}